
--- PAGE 1 ---
1
THE GUARDIANS AND WARDS ACT, 1890
______
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
______
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
SECTIONS
1. Title, extent and commencement.
2. [Repealed.].
3. Saving of jurisdiction of Courts of Wards and Chartered High Courts.
4. Definitions.
4A. Power to confer jurisdiction on subordinate judicial officers and to transfer proceedings
to such officers.
CHAPTER II
APPOINTMENT AND DECLARATION OF GUARDIANS
5. [Omitted.].
6. Saving of power to appoint in other cases.
7. Power of the Court to make order as to guardianship.
8. Persons entitled to apply for order.
9. Court having jurisdiction to entertain application.
10. Form of application.
11. Procedure on admission of application.
12. Power to make interlocutory order for production of minor and interim protection of
person and property.
13. Hearing of evidence before making of order.
14. Simultaneous proceedings in different Courts.
15. Appointment or declaration of several guardians.
16. Appointment or declaration of guardian for property beyond jurisdiction of the Court.
17. Matters to be considered by the Court in appointing guardian.
18. Appointment or declaration of Collector in virtue of office.
19. Guardian not to be appointed by the Court in certain cases.

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
CHAPTER III
DUTIES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF GUARDIANS
General
SECTIONS
20. Fiduciary relation of guardian to ward.
21. Capacity of minors to act as guardians.
22. Remuneration of guardian.
23. Control of Collector as guardian.
Guardian of the person
24. Duties of guardian of the person.
25. Title of guardian to custody of ward.
26. Removal of war from jurisdiction.
Guardian of property
27. Duties of guardian of property.
28. Powers of testamentary guardian.
29. Limitation of powers of guardian of property appointed or declared by the Court.
30. Voidability of transfers made in contravention of section 28 or section 29.
31. Practice with respect to permitting transfers under section 29.
32. Variation of powers of guardian of property appointed or declared by the Court.
33. Right of guardian so appointed or declared to apply to the Court for opinion in management of
property, of ward.
34. Obligations on guardian of property appointed or declared by the Court.
34A. Power to award remuneration for auditing accounts.
35. Suit against guardian where administration-bond was taken.
36. Suit against guardian where administration-bond was not taken.
37. General liability of guardian as trustee.
Termination of guardianship
38. Right of survivorship among joint guardians.
39. Removal of guardian.
40. Discharge of guardian.
41. Cessation of authority of guardian.
42. Appointment of successor to guardian dead, discharged or removed.
CHAPTER IV
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
43. Orders for regulating conduct or proceedings of guardians, and enforcement of those orders.
44. Penalty for removal of ward from jurisdiction.

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
SECTIONS
45. Penalty for contumacy.
46. Reports by Collectors and subordinate Courts.
47. Orders appealable.
48. Finality of other orders.
49. Costs.
50. Power of High Court to make rules.
51. Applicability of Act to guardians already appointed by Court.
52. [Repealed.].
53. [Repealed.].
THE SCHEDULE. — [Repealed.].

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
THE GUARDIANS AND WARDS ACT, 1890
ACT NO. 8 OF 18901
[21st March, 1890.]
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to Guardian and Ward.
WHEREAS it is expedient to consolidate and amend the law relating to guardian and ward; It is
hereby enacted as follows:—
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. Title, extent and commencement.— (1) This Act may be called the Guardians and Wards Act,
1890.
(2) It extends to the whole of India 2***,
3* * * 4***
(3) It shall come into force on the first day of July, 1890.
2. [Repeal.] Rep. by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), s. 2 and the Schedule.
3. Saving of jurisdiction of Courts of Wards and Chartered High Courts.— This Act shall be
read subject to every enactment heretofore or hereafter passed relating to any Court of Wards by 5[any
competent legislature, authority or person in 6[any State to which this Act extends]], and nothing in
this Act shall be construed to affect, or in any way derogate from the jurisdiction or authority of any
Court of Wards, or to take away any power possessed by 7[any High Court 8***].
4. Definitions.— In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or
context,—
(1) “minor” means a person who, under the provisions of the Indian Majority Act, 1875, (9 of
1875) is to be deemed not to have attained his majority:
(2) “guardian” mean’s a person having the care of the person of a minor or of his property, or of
both is person and property:
(3) “ward” means a minor for whose person or property, or both, there is a guardian:
(4) “District Court” has the meaning assigned to that expression in the 9 Code of Civil
1. This Act has been extended to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Reg. 6 of 1963, s. 2 and Sch. I, to the whole of the Union
territory of Lakshadweep by Reg. 8 of 1965, s. 3 and Sch. and to Sikkim vide Notifn. No. S.O. 644(E), dated 24-81984,
Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt. II, s. 3(ii) (w.e.f. 1-9-1984).
This Act has been extended to Pondicherry by Act 26 of 1968, with the following modification:
In section 1, after sub-section (2), insert:—
“Provided that nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the Renoncants of the Union territory of
Pondicherry.”.
2. The words “except the State of Jammu and Kashmir” omitted by Act 34 of 2019, s. 95 and the Fifth Schedule
(w.e.f. 31-10- 2019).
3. The words “inclusive of British Baluchistan” rep by A.O. 1948.
4. The word “and” omitted by Act 40 of 1949, s. 3 and the Second Schedule.
5. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the G.G. in C., or by a Governor or Lieutenant-Governor in Council”.
6. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule for “Part A States and Part C States”.
7. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “any High Court established under the Statute 24 and 25 Victoria, Ch. 104 (an Act
for establishing High Courts of Judicature in India)”.
8. The words “established in Part A States and Part C States” omitted by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule.
9. See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908).

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Procedure (14 of 1882), and includes a High Court in the exercise of its ordinary original civil
jurisdiction:
1[(5) “the Court” means—
(a) the District Court having jurisdiction to entertain an application under this
Act for an order appointing or declaring a person to be a guardian; or
(b) where a guardian has been appointed or declared in pursuance of any such application—
(i) the Court which, or the Court of the officer who, appointed or declared the guardian or
is under this Act deemed to have appointed or declared the guardian; or
(ii) in any matter relating to the person of the ward the District Court having jurisdiction
in the place where the ward for the time being ordinarily resides; or
(c) in respect of any proceeding transferred under section 4A, the Court of the officer to
whom such proceeding has been transferred:]
(6) “Collector” means the chief officer in charge of the revenue—administration of a district,
and includes any officer whom the State Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, may,
by name or in virtue of his office, appoint to be a Collector in any local area, or with respect to any
class of persons, for all or any of the purposes of this Act:
2* * * *; and
(8) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made by the High Court under this Act.
3 [4A. Power to confer jurisdiction on subordinate judicial officers and to transfer
proceedings to such officers.—(1) The High Court may, by general or special order, empower any
officer exercising original civil jurisdiction subordinate to a District Court, or authorise the Judge of
any District Court to empower any such officer subordinate to him, to dispose of any proceedings
under this Act transferred to such officer under the provisions of this section.
(2) The Judge of a District Court may, by order in writing, transfer at any stage any proceeding
under this Act pending in his Court for disposal to any officer subordinate to him empowered under
sub-section (1).
(3) The Judge of a District Court may at any stage transfer to his own Court or to any officer
subordinate to him empowered under sub-section (1) any proceeding under this Act pending in the
Court of any other such officer.
(4) When any proceedings are transferred under this section in any case in which a guardian has
been appointed or declared, the Judge of the District Court may, by order in writing, declare that the
Court of the Judge or officer to whom they are transferred shall, for all or any of the purposes of this
Act, be deemed to be the Court which appointed or declared the guardian.]
1. Subs. by Act 4 of 1926, s. 2, for the clause (5).
2. Clause (7) omitted by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule.
3. Ins. by Act 4 of 1926, s. 3.

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
CHAPTER II
APPOINTMENT AND DECLARATION OF GUARDIANS
5. [Power of parents to appoint in case of European British subjects.] Omitted by the Part B States
(Laws) Act, 1951 (3 of 1951), s. 3 and Schedule.
6. Saving of power to appoint in other cases.—In the case of a minor 1***, nothing in this Act
shall be construed to take away or derogate from any power to appoint a guardian of his person or
property, or both, which is valid by the law to which the minor is subject.
7. Power of the Court to make order as to guardianship.—(1) where the Court is satisfied that
it is for the welfare of a minor that an order should be made—
(a) appointing a guardian of his person or property, or both, or
(b) declaring a person to be such a guardian,
the Court may make an order accordingly.
(2) An order under this section shall imply the removal of any guardian who has not been
appointed by will or other instrument or appointed or declared by the Court.
(3) Where a guardian has been appointed by will or other instrument or appointed or declared by
the Court, an order under this section appointing or declaring another person to be guardian in his
stead shall not be made until the powers of the guardian appointed or declared as aforesaid have
ceased under the provisions of this Act.
8. Persons entitled to apply for order.—An order shall not be made under the last foregoing
section except on the application of—
(a) the person desirous of being, or claiming to be, the guardian of the minor, or
(b) any relative or friend of the minor, or
(c) the Collector of the district or other local area within which the minor ordinarily resides or
in which he has property, or
(d) the Collector having authority with respect to the class to which the minor belongs.
9. Court having jurisdiction to entertain application.—(1) If the application is with respect to
the guardianship of the person of the minor, it shall be made to the District Court having jurisdiction
in the place where the minor ordinarily resides.
(2) If the application is with respect to the guardianship of the property of the minor, it may be
made either to the District Court having jurisdiction in the place where the minor ordinarily resides or
to a District Court having jurisdiction in a place where he has property.
(3) If an application with respect to the guardianship of the property of a minor is made to a
District Court other than that having jurisdiction in the place where the minor ordinarily resides, the
Court may return the application if in its opinion the application would be disposed of more justly or
conveniently by any other District Court having jurisdiction.
10. Form of application.—(1) If the application is not made by the Collector, it shall be by
petition signed and verified in manner prescribed by the 2Code ,of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882) for
the signing and verification of a plaint, and stating, so far as can be ascertained—
(a) the name, sex, religion, date of birth and ordinary residence of the minor;
(b) where the minor is a female, whether she is married, and, if so, the name and age of her
husband;
(c) the nature, situation and approximate value of the property, if any, of the minor;
1. The words “who is not an European British subject” omitted by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule.
2. See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908).

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
(d) the name and residence of the person having the custody or possession of the person or
property of the minor;
(e) what near relations the minor has, and where they reside;
(f) whether a guardian of the person or property, or both, of the minor has been appointed by
any person entitled or claiming to be entitled by the law to which the minor is subject to make such
an appointment;
(g) whether an application has at any time been made to the Court or to any other Court with
respect to the guardianship of the person or property, or both, of the minor, and, if so, when, to
what Court and with what result;
(h) whether the application is for the appointment or declaration of a guardian of the person of
the minor, or of his property, or of both;
(i) where the application is to appoint a guardian, the qualifications of the proposed guardian;
(j) where the application is to declare a person to be a guardian, the grounds on which that
person claims;
(k) the causes which have led to the making of the applications; and
(l) such other particulars, if any, as may be prescribed or as the nature of the application renders
it necessary to state.
(2) If the application is made by the Collector, it shall be by letter addressed to the Court and
forwarded by post or in such other manner as may be found convenient, and shall state as far as
possible the particulars mentioned in sub-section (1).
(3) The application must be accompanied by a declaration of the willingness of the proposed
guardian to act and the declaration must be signed by him and attested by at least two
witnesses.
11. Procedure on admission of application.—(1) If the Court is satisfied that there is ground
for proceeding on the application, it shall fix a day for the hearing thereof, and cause notice of the
application and of the date fixed for the hearing—
(a) to be served in the manner directed in the 1Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882) on—
(i) the parents of the minor if they arc residing in 2[any State to which this Act extends],
(ii) the person, if any, named in the petition or letter as having the custody or possession of
the person or property of the minor,
(iii) the person proposed in the application or letter to be appointed or declared guardian,
unless that person is himself the applicant, and
(iv) any other person to whom, in the opinion of the Court, special notice of the application
should be given; and
(b) to be posted on some conspicuous part of the court-house, and of the residence of the minor,
and otherwise published in such manner as the Court, subject to any rules made by the High Court
under this Act, thinks fit.
(2) The State Government may, by general or special order, require that, when any part of the
property described in a petition under section 10, sub-section (1), is land of which a Court of Wards
could assume the superintendence, the Court shall also cause a notice as aforesaid to be served on the
Collector in whose district the minor ordinarily resides, and on
1. See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908).
2. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule, for “a Part A State or a Part C State”.

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
every Collector in whose district any portion of the land is situate, and the Collector may cause the
notice to be published in any manner he deems fit.
(3) No charge shall be made by the Court or the Collector for the service or publication of any
notice served or published under sub-section (2).
12. Power to make interlocutory order for production of minor and interim protection of
person and property.—(1) The Court may direct that the person, if any, having the custody of the
minor shall produce him or cause him to be produced at such place and time and before such person
as it appoints, and may make such order for the temporary custody and protection of the person or
property of the minor as it thinks proper.
(2) If the minor is a female who ought not to be compelled to appear in public, the direction under
sub-section (1) for her production shall require her to be produced in accordance with the customs and
manners of the country.
(3) Nothing in this section shall authorise—
(a) the Court to place a female minor in the temporary custody of a person claiming to be her
guardian on the ground of his being her husband, unless she is already in his custody with the
consent of her parents, if any, or
(b) any person to whom the temporary custody and protection of the property of a minor is
entrusted to dispossess otherwise than by due course of law any person in possession of any of the
property.
13. Hearing of evidence before making of order.—On the day fixed for the hearing of the
application, or as soon afterwards as may be, the Court shall hear such evidence as may be adduced in
support of or in opposition to the application.
14. Simultaneous proceedings in different Courts.—(1) If proceedings for the appointment or
declaration of a guardian of a minor arc taken in more Courts than one, each of those Courts shall, on
being apprised of the proceedings in the other Court or Courts, stay the proceedings before itself.
(2) If the Courts arc both or all subordinate to the same High Court, they shall report the case to the
High Court, and the High Court shall determine in which of the Courts the proceedings with respect to
the appointment or declaration of a guardian of the minor shall be had.
1[(3) In any other case in which proceedings arc stayed under. sub-section (1), the Courts shall
report the case to, and be guided by such orders as they may receive from, their respective State
Governments]
15. Appointment or declaration of several guardians.—(1) If the law to which the minor is
subject admits of his having two or more joint guardians of his person or property, or both, the Court
may, if it thinks fit, appoint or declare them.
2* * * * *
(4) Separate guardians may be appointed or declared of the person and of the property of a minor.
(5) If a minor has several properties, the Court may, if it thinks fit, appoint or declare a separate
guardian for any one or more of the properties.
16. Appointment or declaration of guardian for property beyond jurisdiction of the
Court.—If the Court appoints or declares a guardian for any property situate beyond the
local limits of its jurisdiction, the Court having jurisdiction in the place where the
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for sub-section (3).
2. Sub-sections (2) and (3) omitted by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule.

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
property is situate shall, on production of a certified copy of the order appointing or declaring the
guardian, accept him as duly appointed or declared and give effect to the order.
17. Matters to be considered by the Court in appointing guardian.—(1) In appointing or
declaring the guardian of a minor, the Court shall, subject to the provisions of this section, be guided
by what, consistently with the law to which the minor is subject, appears in the circumstances to be
for the welfare of the minor.
(2) In considering what will be for the welfare of the minor, the Court shall have regard to the age,
sex and religion of the minor, the character and capacity of the proposed guardian and his nearness of
kin to the minor, the wishes, if any, of a deceased parent, and any existing or previous relations of the
proposed guardian with the minor or his property.
(3) If the minor is old enough to form an intelligent preference, the Court may consider that
preference.
1* * * * *
(5) The Court shall not appoint or declare any person to be a guardian against his will.
18. Appointment or declaration of Collector in virtue of office.—Where a Collector is
appointed or declared by the Court in virtue of his office to be guardian of the person or property, or
both, of a minor, the order appointing or declaring him shall be deemed to authorize and require the
person for the time being holding the office to act as guardian of the minor with respect to his person
or property, or both, as the case may be.
19. Guardian not to be appointed by the Court in certain cases.—Nothing in this Chapter shall
authorise the Court to appoint or declare a guardian of the property of a minor whose property is
under the superintendence of a Court of Wards, or to appoint or declare a guardian of the person—
(a) of a minor who is a married female and whose husband is not, in the opinion of the Court,
unfit to be guardian of her person, or
2[(b) of a minor, other than a married female, whose father or mother is living and is not, in the
opinion of the court, unfit to be guardian of the person of the minor, or.]
(c) of a minor whose property is under the superintendence of a Court of Wards competent to
appoint a guardian of the person of the minor.
CHAPTER III
DUTIES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF GUARDIANS
General
20. Fiduciary relation of guardian to ward.—(1) A guardian stands in a fiduciary relation to his
ward, and, save as provided by the will or other instrument, if any, by which he was appointed, or by
this Act, he must not make any profit out of his office.
(2) The fiduciary relation of it guardian to his ward extends to and affects purchases by the
guardian of the property of the ward, and by the ward of the property of the guardian, immediately or
soon after the ward has ceased to be a minor, and generally all transactions between them while the
influence of the guardian still lasts or is recent.
21. Capacity of minors to act as guardians.—A minor is incompetent to act as guardian of any
minor except his own wife or child or where he is the managing member of an undivided Hindu
family, the wife or child of another minor Member of that family.
1. Sub-section (4) omitted by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule.
2. Subs. by Act 30 of 2010, s. 2 for sub-clause (b) (w.e.f. 31-8-2010).

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
22. Remuneration of guardian.—(1) A guardian appointed or declared by the Court shall be
entitled to such allowance, if any, as the Court thinks fit for his care and paints in the execution of his
duties.
(2) When an officer of the Government, as such officer, is so appointed or declared to be guardian,
such fees shall be paid to the Government out of the property of the ward as the State Government, by
general or special order, directs.
23. Control of Collector as guardian.—A Collector appointed or declared by the Court to be
guardian of the person or property, or both, of a minor shall, in all matters connected with the
guardianship of his ward, be subject to the control of the State Government or of such authority as that
Government, by 1notification in the Official Gazette, appoints in this behalf.
Guardian of the person
24. Duties of guardian of the person.—A guardian of the person of a ward is charged with
the custody of the ward and must look to his support, health and education, and such other matters as
the law to which the ward is subject requires.
25. Title of guardian to custody of ward.—(1) If a ward leaves or is removed from the custody
of a guardian of his person, the Court, if it is of opinion that it will be for the welfare of the ward to
return to the custody of his guardian, may make an order for his return, and for the purpose of
enforcing the order may cause the ward to be arrested and to be delivered into the custody of the
guardian.
(2) For the purpose of arresting the ward, the Court may exercise the power conferred on a
Magistrate of the first class by section 100 of the 2Code of Criminal Procedure, 1882 (10 of 1882).
(3) The residence of a ward against the will of his guardian with a person who is not his guardian
does not of itself terminate the guardianship.
26. Removal of ward from jurisdiction.—(1) A guardian of the person appointed or declared
by the Court unless he is the Collector or is a guardian appointed by will or other instrument, shall
not, without the leave of the Court by which he was appointed or declared, remove the ward from
the limits of its jurisdiction except for such purposes as may be prescribed.
(2) The leave granted by the Court under sub-section (1) may be special or general, and may be
defined by the order granting it.
Guardian of property
27. Duties of guardian of property.—A guardian of the property of a ward is bound to deal
therewith as carefully as a man of ordinary prudence would deal with it if it were his own, and,
subject to the provisions of this Chapter, he may do all acts which are reasonable and proper for the
realisation, protection or benefit of the property.
28. Powers of testamentary guardian.—Where a guardian has been appointed by will or other
instrument, his power to mortgage or charge, or transfer by sale, gift, exchange or otherwise,
immovable property belonging to his ward is subject to any restriction which may be imposed by the
instrument, unless he has under this Act been declared guardian and the Court which made die
declaration permits him by an order in writing, notwithstanding the restriction, to dispose of any
immovable property specified in the order in a manner permitted by the order.
29. Limitation of powers of guardian of property appointed or declared by the
Court.—Where a person other than a Collector, or than a guardian appointed by will or other
1. For notifications appointing authorities to whose control Collectors appointed under the Act shall be subject, see different
local R. & O.
2. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act 5 of 1898).

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
instrument, has been appointed or declared by the Court to be guardian of the property of a ward, he
shall not, without the previous permission of the Court,—
(a) mortgage or charge, or transfer by sale, gift, exchange or otherwise, any part of the
immovable property of his ward, or
(b) lease any part of that property for a term exceeding five years or for any term extending
more than one year beyond the date on which the ward will cease to be a minor.
30. Viodability of transfers made in contravention of section 28 or section 29.—A disposal of
immovable property by a guardian in contravention of either of the two last foregoing sections is
voidable at the instance of any other person affected thereby.
31. Practice with respect to permitting transfers under section 29.—(1) Permission to the
guardian to do any of the acts mentioned in section 29 shall not be granted by the Court except in case
of necessity or for an evident advantage to the ward.
(2) The order granting the permission shall recite the necessity or advantage, as the case may
be, describe the property with respect to which the act permitted is to be done, and specify such
conditions, if any, as the Court may see fit to attach to the permission; and it shall be recorded,
dated and signed by the Judge of the Court with his own hand, or, when from any cause he is
prevented from recording the order with his own hand, shall be taken down in writing from his
dictation and be dated and signed by him.
(3) The Court may in its discretion attach to the permission the following among other conditions,
namely:—
(a) that a sale shall not be completed without the sanction of the Court;
(b) that a sale shall be made to the highest bidder by public auction, before the Court or
some person specially appointed by the Court for that purpose, at a time and place to be
specified by the Court, after such proclamation of the intended sale as the Court, subject to
any rules made under this Act by the High Court, directs;
(c) that a lease shall not be made in consideration of a premium or shall be made for such term
of years and subject to such rents and covenants as the Court directs;
(d) that the whole or any part of the proceeds of the act permitted shall be paid into the
Court by the guardian, to be disbursed therefrom or to be invested by the Court on
prescribed securities or to be otherwise disposed of as the Court directs.
(4) Before granting permission to a guardian to do an act mentioned in section 29, the Court
may cause notice of the application for the permission to be given to any relative or friend of the
ward who should, in its opinion, receive notice thereof, and shall hear and record the statement of
any person who appears in opposition to the application.
32. Variation of powers of guardian of property appointed or declared by the Court.—
Where a guardian of the property of a ward has been appointed or declared by the Court and such
guardian is not the Collector, the Court may, from time to time, by order, define, restrict or extend
his powers with respect to the property of the ward in such manner and to such extent as it may
consider to be for the advantage of the ward and consistent with the law to which the ward is
subject.
33. Right of guardian so appointed or declared to apply to the Court for opinion in
management of property of ward.—(1) A guardian appointed or declared by the Court may
apply by petition to the Court which appointed or declared him for its opinion, advice or direction
on any present question respecting the management or administration of the property of his ward.
(2) If the Court considers the question to be proper for summary disposal, it shall cause a copy of
the petition to be served on, and the hearing thereof may be attended by, such of the persons interested
in the application as the Court thinks fit.

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
(3) The guardian stating in good faith the facts in the petition and acting upon the opinion, advice
or direction given by the Court shall be deemed, so far as regards his own responsibility, to have
performed his duty as guardian in the subject-matter of the application.
34. Obligations on guardian of property appointed or declared by the Court.—Where a
guardian of the property of a ward has been appointed or declared by the Court and such guardian is
not the Collector, he shall,—
(a) if so required by the Court, give a bond, as nearly as may be in the prescribed form, to the
Judge of the Court to ensure for the benefit of the Judge for the time being, with or without
sureties, as may be prescribed, engaging duly to account for what he may receive in respect of the
property of the ward;
(b) if so required by the Court, deliver to the Court, within six months from the date of his
appointment or declaration by the Court, or within such other time as the Court directs, a statement
of the immovable property belonging to the ward, of the money and other movable property which
he has received on behalf of the ward up to the date of delivering the statement, and of the debts
due on that date to or from the ward;
(c) if so required by the Court, exhibit his accounts in the Court at such times and in such form
as the Court from time to time directs;
(e) if so required by the Court, pay into the Court at such time as the Court directs the balance
due from him on those accounts, or so much thereof as the Court directs; and
(f) apply for the maintenance, education and advancement of the ward and of such persons as
are dependent on him, and for the celebration of ceremonies to which the ward or any of those
persons may be a party, such portion of the income of the property of the ward as the Court from
time to time directs, and, if the Court so directs, the whole or any part of that property.
1[34A. Power to award remuneration for auditing accounts.—When accounts are exhibited by
a guardian of the property of a ward in pursuance of a requisition made under clause (c) of section 34
or otherwise, the Court may appoint a person to audit the accounts, and may direct that remuneration
for the work be paid out of the income of the property.]
35. Suit against guardian where administration bond was taken.—Where a guardian appointed
or declared by the Court has given a bond duly to account for what he may receive in respect of the
property of his ward, the Court may, on application made by petition and on being satisfied that the
engagement of the bond has not been kept, and upon such terms as to security, or providing that any
money received be paid into the Court, or otherwise as the Court thinks fit, assign the bond to some
proper person, who shall thereupon be entitled to sue on the bond in his own name as if the bond had
been originally given to him instead of to the Judge of the Court, and shall be entitled to recover
thereon, as trustee for the ward, in respect of any breach thereof.
36. Suit against guardian where administration bond was not taken.—(1) Where a guardian
appointed or declared by the Court has not given a bond as aforesaid, any person, with the leave of the
Court, may, as next friend, at any time during the continuance of the minority of the ward, and upon
such terms as aforesaid, institute a suit against the guardian, or, in case of his death, against his
representative, for an account of what the guardian has received in respect of the property of the ward,
and may recover in the suit, as trustee for the ward, such amount as may be found to be payable by the
guardian or his representative, as the case may be.
1. Ins. by Act 17 of 1929, s. 2.

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, so far as they relate to a suit against a guardian, be
subject to the provisions of section 440 of the Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882) as amended by
this Act1.
37. General liability of guardian as trustee.—Nothing in either of the two last foregoing sections
shall be construed to deprive a ward or his representative of any remedy against his guardian, or the
representative of the guardian, which, not being expressly provided in either of those sections, any
other beneficiary or his representative would have against his trustee or the representative of the
trustee.
Termination of guardianship
38. Right of survivorship among joint guardians.—On the death of one of two or more joint
guardians, the guardianship continues to the survivor or survivors until a further appointment is made
by the Court.
39. Removal of guardian. —The Court may, on the application of any person interested, or of its
own motion, remove a guardian appointed or declared by the Court, or a guardian appointed by will or
other instrument, for any of the following causes, namely:—
(a) for abuse of his trust;
(b) for continued failure to perform the duties of his trust;
(c) for incapacity to perform the duties of his trust;
(d) for ill-treatment, or neglect to take proper care, of his ward;
(e) for contumacious disregard of any provision of this Act or of any order of the Court;
(f) for conviction of an offence implying, in the opinion of the Court, a defect of character
which unfits him to be the guardian of his ward;
(g) for having an interest adverse to the faithful performance of his duties;
(h) for ceasing to reside within the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court;
(i) in the case of a guardian of the property, for bankruptcy or insolvency;
(j) by reason of the guardianship of the guardian ceasing, or being liable to cease, under the law
to which the minor is subject:
Provided that a guardian appointed by will or other instrument, whether he has been declared
under this Act or not, shall not be removed—
(a) for the cause mentioned in clause (g) unless the adverse interest accrued after the death of
the person who appointed him, or it is shown that that person made and maintained the
appointment in ignorance of the existence of the adverse interest, or
(b) for the cause mentioned in clause (h) unless such guardian has taken up such a residence as,
in the opinion of the Court, renders it impracticable for him to discharge the functions of guardian.
40. Discharge of guardian.—(1) If a guardian appointed or declared by the Court desires to resign
his office, he may apply to the Court to be discharged.
(2) If the Court finds that there is sufficient reason for the application, it shall discharge him, and if
the guardian making the application is the Collector and the State Government approves of his
applying to be discharged, the Court shall in any case discharge him.
41. Cessation of authority of guardian.—(1) The powers of a guardian of the person cease—
(a) by his death, removal or discharge;
(b) by the Court of Wards assuming superintendence of the person of the ward;
1. See now Order XXXII, rules 1 and 4(2), in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of
1908).

--- PAGE 14 ---
14
(c) by the ward ceasing to be a minor;
(d) in the case of a female ward, by her marriage to a husband who is not unfit to be guardian of
her person or, if the guardian was appointed or declared by the Court, by her marriage to a husband
who is not, in the opinion of the Court, so unfit; or
(e) in the case of a ward whose father was unfit to be guardian of the person of the ward, by the
father ceasing to be so or, if the father was deemed by the Court to be so unfit, by his ceasing to be
so in the opinion of the Court.
(2) The powers of a guardian of the property cease—
(a) by his death, removal or discharge;
(b) by the Court of Wards assuming superintendence of the property of the ward; or
(c) by the ward ceasing to be a minor.
(3) When for any cause the powers of a guardian cease, the Court may require him or, if he is dead,
his representative to deliver as it directs any property in his possession or control belonging to the
ward or any accounts in his possession or control relating to any past or present property of the ward.
(4) When he has delivered the property or accounts as required by the Court, the Court may
declare him to be discharged from his liabilities save as regards any fraud which may subsequently be
discovered.
42. Appointment to successor to guardian dead, discharged or removed.—When a guardian
appointed or declared by the Cowl is discharged, or, under the law to which the ward is subject,
ceases to be entitled to act, or when any such guardian or a guardian appointed by will or other
instrument is removed or dies, the Court, of its own motion or on application under Chapter II, may, if
the ward is still a minor, appoint or declare another guardian of his person or property, or both, as the
case may be.
CHAPTER IV
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
43. Orders for regulating conduct or proceedings of guardians, and enforcement of those
orders.—(1) The Court may, on the application of any person interested or of its own motion, make
an order regulating the conduct or proceedings of any guardian appointed or declared by the Court.
(2) Where there are more guardians than one of a ward, and they are unable to agree upon a
question affecting his welfare, any of them may apply to the Court for its direction, and the Court may
make such order respecting the matter in difference as it thinks fit.
(3) Except where it appears that the object of making an order under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) would be defeated by the delay, the Court shall, before making the order, direct notice
of the application therefor or of the intention of the Court to make it, as the case may be, to be given,
in a case under sub-section (1), to the guardian or, in a case under sub-section (2), to the guardian who
has not made the application
(4) In case of disobedience to an order made under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the order
may be enforced in the same manner as an injunction granted under section 492 or section 493 of the
Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882), in a case under sub-section (1), as if the ward were the plaintiff
and the guardian were the defendant or, in a case under sub-section (2), as if the guardian who made
the application were the plaintiff and the other guardian were the defendant.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
(5) Except in a case under sub-section (2), nothing in this section shall apply to a Collector who is,
as such, a guardian.
44. Penalty for removal of ward from jurisdiction.—If, for the purpose or with the effect of
preventing the Court from exercising its authority with respect to a ward, a guardian appointed or
declared by the Court removes the ward from the limits of the jurisdiction of the Court in
contravention of the provisions of section 26, he shall be liable, by order of the Court, to find not
exceeding one thousand rupees, or to imprisonment in the civil jail for a term which may extend to six
months.
45. Penalty for contumacy.—(1) In the following cases, namely:—
(a) if a person having the custody of a minor fails to produce him or cause him to be produced
in compliance with a direction under section 12, sub-section (1), or to do his utmost to compel the
minor to return to the custody of his guardian in obedience to an order under section 25,
sub-section (1), or
(b) if a guardian appointed or declared by the Court fails to deliver to the Court, within the time
allowed by or under clause (b) of section 34, a statement required under that clause, or to exhibit
accounts in compliance with a requisition under clause (c) of that section, or to pay into the Court
the balance due from him on those accounts in compliance with a requisition under clause (d) of
that section, or
(c) if a person who has ceased to be a guardian, or the representative of such a person, fails to
deliver any property or accounts in compliance with a requisition under section 41, sub-section (3),
the person, guardian or representative, as the case may be, shall be liable, by order of the Court, to
fine not exceeding one hundred rupees, and in case of recusancy to further fine not exceeding ten
rupees for each day after the first during which the default continues, and not exceeding five hundred
rupees in the aggregate, and to detention in the civil jail until he undertakes to produce the minor or
cause him to be produced, or to compel his return, or to deliver the statement, or to exhibit the
accounts, or to pay the balance, or to deliver the property or accounts, as the case may be.
(2) If a person who has been released from detention on giving an undertaking under
sub-section (1) fails to carry out the undertaking within the time allowed by the Court, the Court may
cause him to be arrested and re-committed to the civil jail.
46. Reports by Collectors and subordinate Courts.—(1) The Court may call upon the Collector,
or upon any court subordinate to the Court, for a report on any matter arising in any proceeding under
this Act and treat the report as evidence.
(2) For the purpose of preparing the report the Collector or the Judge of the subordinate Court as
the case may be, shall make such inquiry as he deems necessary, and may for the pruposes of the
inquiry exercise any power of compelling the attendance of a witness to give evidence or produce a
document which is conferred on a Court by the 1Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882).
47. Orders appealable.— An appeal shall lie to the High Court from an order made by a 2***
Court,—
(a) under section 7, appointing or declaring or refusing to appoint or declare a guardian; or,
(b) under section 9, sub-section (3), returning an application ; or,
1. See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908).
2. The word “District” rep. by Act 4 of 1926, s. 4.

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
(c) under section 25, making or refusing to make an order for the return of a ward to the
custody of his guardian; or,
(d) under section 26, refusing leave for, the removal of award from the limits of the jurisdiction
of the Court, or imposing conditions with respect thereto; or,
(e) under section 28 or section 29, refusing permission to a guardian to do an act referred to in
the section; or,
(f) under section 32, defining, restricting or extending the powers of a guardian ; or,
(g) under section 39, removing a guardian ; or,
(h) under section 40, refusing to discharge a guardian; or,
(i) under section 43, regulating the conduct or proceedings of a guardian or settling a matter in
difference between joint guardians, or enforcing the order ; or,
(j) under section 44 or section 45, imposing a penalty.
48. Finality of other orders.—Save as provided by the last foregoing section and by 1section 622
of the Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882), an order made under this Act shall be final and shall not
be liable to be contested by suit or otherwise.
49. Costs.—The costs of any proceeding under this Act, including the costs of maintaining a
guardian or other person in the civil jail, shall, subject to any rules made by the High Court under this
Act, be in the discretion of the Court in which the proceeding is had.
50. Power of High Court to make rules.—(1) In addition to any other power to make rules
conferred expressly or impliedly by this Act, the High Court may from time to time make rules
consistent with this Act—
(a) as to the matters respecting which, and the time at which, reports should be called for from
Collectors and subordinate Courts;
(b) as to the allowances to be granted to, and the security to be required from, guardians, and
the cases in which such allowances should be granted;
(c) as to the procedure to be followed with respect to applications of guardians for permission
to do acts referred to in sections 28 and 29 ;
(d) as to the circumstances in which such requisitions as arc mentioned in clauses (a), (b), (c)
and (d) of section 34 should be made ;
(e) as to the preservation of statements and accounts delivered and exhibited by guardians ;
(ff) as to the inspection of those statements and accounts by persons interested ;
2 [(ff) as to the audit of accounts under section 34A, the class of persons who should be
appointed to audit accounts, and the scales of remuneration to be granted to them;]
(g) as to the custody of money, and securities for money, belonging to wards ;
(h) as to the securities on which money belonging to wards may be invested ;
(i) as to the education of wards for whom guardians, not being Collectors, have been appointed
or declared by the Court ; and,
(j) generally, for the guidance of the Courts in carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2) Rules under clauses (a) and (1) of sub-section (1) shall not have effect until they have been
approved by the State Government, nor shall any rule under this section have effect until it has been
published in the Official Gazette.
1. See now s. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908).
2. Ins. by Act 17 of 1929, s. 3.

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
51. Applicability of Act to guardians already appointed by Court.—A guardian appointed by,
or holding a certificate of administration from, a Civil Court under any enactment repealed by this Act
shall, save as may be prescribed, be subject to the provisions of this Act, and of the rules made under
it, as if he had been appointed or declared by the Court under Chapter II.
52. [Amendment of Indian Majority Act.] Rep. by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), s. 2 and the
Schedule.
53. [Amendment of Chapter XXXI of the Code of Civil Procedure.] Rep. by the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), s. 156 and the Fifth Schedule.
THE SCHEDULE.—[Enactments repealed.] Rep. by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), s. 2 and
the Schedule.
______